Hello there.
This is Robert E. Lee, your fax forum moderator speaking to you from our office in Washington,
DC.
Our question for tonight should the treaty making power of the president be limited by
the Bricker Amendment?
We have two very distinguished guests here, Senator John Bricker, Republican of Ohio, and
Senator Estes-Keefe over, Democrat of Tennessee.
Now Senator Bricker to start us off here, we'd like to turn our three-minute hourglass
upside down and ask you to sketch for us the purpose of your amendment.
The purpose of this amendment, which is sponsored by 63 other senators and myself, is to prevent
treaty law from overriding the constitutional protection of the people of the United States.
treaty law under this amendment must conform with the provisions of the Constitution just
as acts of Congress do at the present time.
In other words, a treaty will be entered into just as it is at the present time by the
President and ratified by two-thirds of the Senate.
But before that treaty becomes domestic law affecting the individual rights of citizens
of the United States, it must be made so by act of Congress.
That will bring it in the provision of the Constitution, which requires that acts of
Congress must be under the Constitution itself.
Treaty law is supreme in this country because of the fact that in the Constitution there
is Article 6, which calls for treaties, the Constitution, and acts of Congress under the
Constitution being the Supreme Law of the Land.
Treaty is only have to be entered into with the approval of two-thirds of the Senate ratifying
the President's agreement with any foreign country.
Then a further provision of this amendment would require that executive agreements which
have come to common use in recent years, and one man in the Secretary of State Department
actually wrote a book a short time ago in which he said that hereafter treaties that are
unimportant, relatively non-controversial will be submitted to the Senate.
But those which are controversial and of high importance will be entered into as executive
agreements, therefore bypassing the Senate and the Congress.
It is to prevent that kind of thing, that the last section of the Constitutional amendment
which I submitted with the sponsorship of three other senators was introduced.
That would mean that Congress can control executive agreements, but foreign relations
would go on just as they are at the present time.
There is no delimiting of the power of the President.
There is no attempt to take away from the Senate, the ratifying power which it has at the
present time, but only to require that treaty law comply with the provisions of the Constitution
in the United States just as Congressional law has to at the present time.
Senator Keith, all the way to your views on that?
Mr. Lee, I am against the so-called Bricker Amendment, which does limit the pretty-making
power of the President and Secretary of State, which makes it very much more difficult
for us to carry on the very necessary position of leadership among the pre-nations of the
world and the interest of peace.
And in the interest of working out some kind of a system where we can get the best of this
communist philosophy and aggressive tendency that has so threatened the peace of the world.
I know that what Senator Bricker says about his amendment sounds good, as a matter of
fact, it has many words that would attract anyone and it has very appealing philosophy
that we want the Constitution to be supreme.
Well, of course, the Constitution is supreme.
I think it's very well to get down to just exactly what the sections of the Bricker amendment
will do.
I think, Mr. Lee, that we've grown to greatness under our present system, and now that we've
gotten great, I don't see any reason for taking away the power of the President and the
United States Senate by which we have grown to greatness.
I think it's very well to keep in mind that the proponents of this bill do not argue about
anything that has taken place in the past.
They point to no treaty.
They point to nothing has been done, but the Senate of the United States that they think
is wrong.
But what they are talking about is that they fear that in the future, that some way or
another, we might not be able to protect the rights of the people.
Well, you know, I think we have a pretty good system where treaties are made by the Secretary
of State and by the President.
We've got to have confidence in our President.
I didn't go for a present hour, but I don't want to tie his hands at a very time when
he must be able to carry on in the field of international affairs.
I might not have selected Mr. Delos, the Secretary of State, but I have confidence in him.
I don't think he's going to sell the United States down the river.
And I have confidence in two-thirds of the Senate.
Treaties must be ratified by two-thirds of the Senate, as we all know.
And at times, the effort has always been to try to make it easier to ratify treaties.
There have been many complaints by many of our leading statesmen that it's impossible
to get anything done in the field of foreign affairs because it's so hard to ratify treaties.
John Hayes said one time, said, putting a treaty before the United States to just send it
is just like putting a bull in an arena.
You know what the bull looks like when it goes in, but you never can tell what it will
be like when it comes out.
Well, there is much to be said for making it easier to ratify treaties, but what I'm
urging here is that we follow the constitutional method which has worked so well in the past
and keep it like it is.
Remember, this is something that has been debated for a long, long time.
It was debated by our founding fathers when they met in Philadelphia in 1787.
And they came to the conclusion that this was the best method.
I have here what Mr. Madison said about it.
I don't know if the sunglasses are going to run out before I reach out.
All right, Senator, take a moment.
Well, Mr. Madison said that I think if the treaty power rests on the safest foundation
as it is, the object of treaty is the regulation of intercourse with foreign nations and is external.
I do not think it's possible to enumerate all of the causes, cases in which such external
regulation would be necessary.
They'd be right to define all the cases in which Congress would exercise this authority.
The definition and the definition might and probably would be defective.
They might be restrained by such a definition from exercising the authority where it would
be essential to the interest and safety of the community.
It is most safe, therefore, to leave it to be exercised as contingencies may arise.
And I think that's very sound philosophy.
I think that the medicine philosophy is very sound.
And if the present generation had followed his philosophy of treaty law, there would
be any thought of the amendment which I have introduced and which 63 other senators have
sponsored.
Mr. Madison says that treaties deal with international relationships.
That was the concept of the founding fathers.
That it was a relation between sovereign nation and sovereign nation.
And nobody ever thought of a treaty as affecting the rights of Senator Keephover or Mr. Lee
or the individual citizen in this country until the philosophy was evolved by Philip Jesse
a few years ago and then under Section 55 and 56 of the United Nations, the various committees
started to work on treaties which deal directly with the rights of individual citizens rather
with the sovereign rights of nation.
We are not limiting the power of treaty in any way, shape of form, we are not making it
any more difficult.
In fact, it will be much easier.
There are many treaties now which are submitted to the Senate that two thirds don't vote
on or even know about.
One was ratified in the last session of Congress with only six senators present as Keephover
remember.
And another one with only one senator present.
There is not a general interest.
They may slip through that way and even if there is a contest, a treaty can be ratified
by 33 senators.
And that means that those 33 senators can affect domestic law and the rights of the American
people under treaties.
Without any act of Congress or with anything that Congress might say about it, let me
read to you what Pastor Dulles had to say about this.
He said the treaty making power is an extraordinary power liable to abuse.
treaties make international law and they also make domestic law.
Under our constitution treaties become the supreme law of the land.
They are indeed more supreme than ordinary law or congressional laws are invalid if they
do not conform to the Constitution.
Whereas treaty law can override the Constitution.
These for example can take away powers from the Congress and give them to the President.
They can take away powers from the United States and give them to the federal government
or to some international body.
And they can cut across the rights given the people by the constitutional bill of rights.
That was a speech well documented by the Secretary of State, given a year ago at the Bar Association
meeting in Louisville.
And it's absolutely true that there is no limit, as was said by Chief Justice Hughes,
on the treaty making power.
He does, if there were any limitation on it at all.
Now Mr. Keepover has said, Senator Keepover has said that we don't complain of past treaties.
But if Section 55 and 56 of the United Nations treaty is self-executing as it was held by
one court in California and as it has been held by another inferior court, if the Supreme
Court should sustain that position, then there has been a treaty enacted and ratified,
which would change the whole domestic law of the United States because those two sections
deal with every human relationship that we have in this country.
Senator Keepover.
Well, Mr. Leigh, quite through, Mr. Dallas made a talk about a year ago when he was just
a private citizen.
But I prefer to take what Mr. Dallas said before the Judiciary Committee just a few weeks
ago.
Mr. Dallas had had a whole lot more time to read the decisions of the Supreme Court and also
to consider the difficulties he was going to have in Secretary of State if he went along
with Senator Brickard's amendment.
So he came before the Judiciary Committee representing President Eisenhower and he
testified very, very strongly against the limitations that are included in this and the
Brickard amendment.
That's after he had time to think this matter over a whole lot more.
I do not have all of Secretary Dallas's testimony, but he said among other things that the
United States has always insisted in negotiations and debate with the Soviet Union that no limitations
or control of armaments would be acceptable and less enforced by strict international supervision.
This was the so-called Baruch plan.
The Soviet Union has so far refused to exceed to set the international control.
But surely this is no time for the United States to make itself unable to participate in
the effective international control of armaments.
And the quotation, Mr. Dallas, went on to say that the Brickard amendment was, uh, in
pair and make it impossible to enter into aviation treaties, radio treaties, narcotics,
quarantine requirements.
I think we couldn't even enter into agreements relative to taking care of migratory birds
when they fly in and out.
Mr. Dallas said, Father, uh, said talking about one section of the treaty, quote, this
would make it much more difficult to consummate effective treaties.
Our nation's ability to deal with other nations would be gravely impaired in the quotation.
Now, I think we all make it very clear in the beginning, Mr. Lee, and that the Constitution
is now supreme.
No treaty can be entered into, which is going to take away the rights of the people under
the Constitution.
It's always been held by our Supreme Court, uh, but that the Constitution is the Supreme
Law of the Land.
And of course, any treaty that might be in violation with our Constitution would simply
be of no force and effect.
That's the law now.
Uh, that's what Section One of Senator Brickard's, uh, resolution deals with.
Well, then you'd have no idea if you think this is one.
Well, I know, but we don't want to be writing something into the Constitution when it's already
the Law of the Land.
I could think of a whole other things that this is a pretty day and the capitals are pretty
building.
No one would dispute that, but that's no reason to write it into the Constitution.
Here they, uh, the Supreme Court back in the, uh, the rigs case, uh, says this.
It would not be contended that it extends talking about treaty-making powers.
So as so far as to authorize what the Constitution forbids are to change, are a change in the
character of the government, are in that, um, that are one of the states, are a session
on the, are, are, are a session of any portion of the territory, the latter without its consent.
Now, I suppose when we come to these constitutional questions, they, Attorney General of the United
States is, because it's good enough one to go by as I know of.
Well, let's discuss for just a minute before you proceed with that, uh, Senator, uh, Jeffrey
against rigged.
Jeffrey against rigged is 100 years old.
And, uh, that was a short obiter on the part of the court.
And you can find a lot of them up to the last, uh, 15 years to that extent.
The contrary of that is what I've just read from Secretary Delas when he was a lawyer.
And let me say to you that no executive likes to be curved in his power.
Every JD wants unlimited authority.
He does not Congress to curvy.
He doesn't want the people to curvy.
That's entirely contrary to the philosophy of the founder of the party whose cause you
espoused.
Domus Jefferson said, let us hear no more about the confidence in men, but let us tie
them down by the terms of the Constitution.
And that's exactly what we are doing in this case.
We're trying down the representatives of the people of this country so that the inalienable
God given rights of the American people expressed in the Constitution and the Bill of Rights
can't be taken away by treaty law.
And I say to you honestly that they can, the Chief Justice Hughes supported that philosophy.
And you mentioned, you mentioned, the Secretary of Virgin.
It was in the famous, the Secretary of Virgin case where this question first became a serious
problem when Justice Holmes held it by a treaty with Great Britain that you enlarge the power
of Congress to do something which it couldn't do under the Constitution.
Now three judges are the Supreme Court of the United States in the recent steel decision.
Well that because we have entered the United Nations because we have entered the NATO agreement
that the President of the United States has unlimited power to seize the steel industry.
Of course we can seize, I can seize anything else.
But without regard to Congress and without regard to the constitutional powers, he held that
they had that right.
If two more would have joined with the three, the Republic would have ended right then.
And we'd be subject to all sorts of international control and global theories.
I've been telling you how dangerous they are.
We've discussed a lot, you know.
They covered it in human rights.
That is the one which became most serious.
The one which Mr. Dulles says that they will never present them, and have instructed their
representative to the committee who have no more to do with it in English, joined with
Herrinette Positions that had been trending in the wrong direction.
But Mr. Malik, who was chairman of that commission, succeeded Mrs. Roosevelt.
And Mr. Malik said definitely that this treaty has shown the influence of the Marxist philosophy
and that he was surprised at the impotence of the Western powers first to get together
and to have the imaginativeness to face the communist philosophy which was expressed in
this covenant.
Now that's from the chairman himself.
And when we have these treaties, which will be submitted, that one was dangerous.
The International Court of Criminal Justice is also a dangerous treaty which is being worked
on at the present time.
And under that international court of criminal justice, an American citizen could be tried
any place in the world by an international court on which we might have and might not have
even one representative.
And he'd have no right of appeal.
He'd have no right under the Constitution be tried at the site of the offense.
He would not have a right of appeal.
He would have no right of a trial but jury.
And there would be no power in this country that could stop such a prosecution under
an alien law.
What I want to do and what this amendment does, Senator Keve, is to keep those inalienable
rights and they were declared as divine, inspired by our creators, as you know in the
Declaration of Independence.
What I want to do and what this amendment would do would keep those rights beyond the power
of any government.
Hours are in the international government and keep them in the spiritual and out of the
temporal realm.
Yes, Senator.
And, Bridges, I'm sure that's what you want to do.
I mean, Senator, I'm not going to break her out.
But of course, in doing that, what you effectively do is to tie the hands of the leading democracy
in the world of time when it's got to have much freedom of mind.
How would it tie the hands?
I'll show you how to tie the hands if we can get on and discuss the section by section.
But let me make one thing clear.
Every bricker is amunciating a doctrine of fear.
I don't think this is a time when we've got to be afraid of ourselves.
He talks about the covenant of human rights and the international court of human justice
about agreements that may be entered into and League of Nations conferences.
And yet he, in the same breath, he says that President Mr. Dulles says he's not going
to submit it.
Well, I don't have any fear whatsoever.
But the President of the United States and the Secretary of State and two-thirds of
the United States Senate are going to be so negligent of their duties that they're
going to let us enter the United States' enter into something that's not in the best interest
of the people.
If we don't have confidence in the President and two-thirds of the Senate, we might as
well fold up.
No prohibition is going to protect the people of the United States if these great institutions
which have worked so well for 165 years if we're going to throw aside them because of
lack of confidence on the idea that they might do something in the future, that they
might ratify some treaty that is being thought about.
Something the Secretary of State says he's not even going to go into present for the United
States Senate.
As Senator Bricker, there isn't a single decision of the Supreme Court anywhere that says that
they treaty overrides the Constitution.
The decisions of the Supreme Court are all of the contrary.
Mr. Delos may have had that idea when he made a speech sometime back, but he'd changed
when he came up to testify for the Court.
Has there ever been any decisions the Supreme Court made sure we're ready or overrode any
section of the treaty?
Well, the decisions of the Supreme Court say that the Constitution is paramount.
Does anybody-
Has anybody-
I think for one minute that a treaty of the United States is going to take away the
right of habeas, porpoise, or the rights that we have under our Constitution?
Mr. Brownell says that, and I hear as well as Mr. Justice Parker says, he's one of our great
, he's a Republican, by the way, and one of our great Circuit Court of Appeals judges.
And another great one was on the same question, but a policy.
Judge Phillips.
Well, he may have been, but I don't think he doesn't agree with anybody.
Well, Justice Parker-
I'm not a candidate.
That used to be a part of Tennessee.
But Justice Parker, I don't think Mr. Phillips disagreed with Justice Parker on the law, he
says, do you think for a moment if this government should enter into a treaty or a series of treaties
changing the basis of representation in Congress or abolishing the writ of habeas, porpoise
of the right to compensation upon the exercise of them in the domain, or limiting religious
liberty or freedom of speech or of the press, is the Supreme Court would uphold the treaty
against the guarantees of the Constitution to ask such a question as to answer it.
And as a matter of fact, in the hard money cases, is the Supreme Court of the United States
even held that where, if the Congress didn't like the treaty that all they had to do is
pass a law opposite from the treaty so that the treaty would have no force in effect,
that said, they could have money cases.
In the worst of the days of a monilateral treaty, such as we got at the present time,
that would invite international chaos and confusion that might lead to war, the notification
of treaties in the past has led to war in many instances.
And we don't want any agreements with the only protecting influence that of the Congress
of the United States.
Now Senator Keefer, you said that that was a doctrine of fear.
I want to say to you that I believe in the doctrine of fear when it comes to the unlimited
power of men over the rights of people.
If the founders of this country had not subscribed to the doctrine of fear, we wouldn't have had
the Constitution.
And if the first Congress had not subscribed to their doctrine of fear, we wouldn't have
had to attend amendments.
I fear the power of government as much as anything in the world today.
It's the power of government that has ruined the liberties of people and destroyed nations
within your lifetime and mine and even within the term within the Congress and the Senate.
The greed for power and it's an insatiable greed.
Maybe that has something to do with the attitude of those who are in power.
And I want you to know that the only time you can protect the people of this country is
when an administration is in power when you don't need it.
And that's the reason that we're moving on this as rapidly as we can at the present time.
Now the argument that you used about let us trust people was the argument that Alexander
Hamilton used and it's Madison's youth in the Constitutional Convention and in the
Federalist to prevent the adoption of the Bill of Rights.
That was an effort to get the Constitution adopted in New York State without a Bill of
Rights in it.
And I'm very thankful today and I think you are.
Not the Jefferson philosophy, the Patrick Henry's and the Samuel Adams's and the Mason's.
One in that fight and we do have a Bill of Rights in the Constitution which protects
the American people in their inalienable God-given rights and let's no power of government.
Invade them or take them away.
Now a treaty does not have to under the terms of the Constitution itself and home said so.
In the migratory bird case does not have to comply with the provisions of the Constitution.
And Justice Hughes said that, fostered us in his thinking as a lawyer said it also.
And I am quite confident that if we had ratified the covenant of human rights and many of the
other treaties that have been submitted by the ILO and the WHO which deal with the rights
of the employer and labor in this country and even the rights of motherhood and the rules
of industry in regard to mothers with babies and so forth.
If those had been ratified they would become the supreme law of the land and cut across
the rights of the people of this country.
Now it's none of the business of an Italian or an Englishman or a Russian or a German
or a Frenchman what our internal laws are.
And I don't think that they don't have anything to say about them.
International affairs, yes.
We've got to cooperate and willing to cooperate.
But this amendment, this amendment above mine sponsored by 63 other senators would make
it easier to enter into treaties for this reason that the Senate of the United States
could take a chance maybe if they knew that the rights of the American people, the free
speech and worship of God according to their conscience and privilege of assembly and
all those things could not be invaded or violated.
Then we could afford to take a chance maybe which we can't afford to do now.
And that's very apparent in the treaty which we discussed on the floor a couple of days
ago.
Well, Senator Bricker, I don't want the Senate of the United States to take any chance
unless they are certain that what's going to happen.
That's the reason we've gotten along so well so far.
This is a very unique system we have here where we require two-thirds of the upper body
of pungence to ratify something oppressed in the Secretary of State has done.
If anyone thinks that we can write down my new laws for the governing of the ever-detailed
law, and exactly what is going to be done in this field or that, and that that's going
to save us, they're badly mistaken.
If these present safeguards of two-thirds of the Senate and the President of the United
States won't save us, then we're in for a bad situation.
And I think provisions like you have here that show us a lack of confidence in the present
setup that we have.
You mentioned a few minutes ago, the Supreme Court and the seizure of the steel cases.
The Supreme Court's late-free members voted to uphold the President's order because
he's the commander in chief for the Army of the Senate.
I'm sorry, Senator.
Thank you very much, Senator Keif over.
Senator Brick, they're bringing us both sides of this interesting question.
Facts form as a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization dedicated solely to the preservation of liberty
through the full and free discussion of both sides of important issues of the day.
We would like you to become a member and join in this enduring crusade to preserve freedom.
Facts form at Dallas, Texas.
There are no charges of any kind.
We'll be glad to add your name to our mailing list.
Thanks for being our guest this evening and remember, freedom needs a soapbox too.